from faron's
latest and greatest and that has I've
just forgotten the title this is Pamela
Burton and you're listening and KPFK
today my special guests in the studio
are here to help me talk about the issue
that we have been talking about that
we've been covering for the last few
weeks on this program the issue of the
war in the Middle East and in some parts
of course our psychological responses
are very important as many of us are
even responding to those responses of
other Americans finding ourselves kind
of dumbfounded at the fact that that
with the Yellow Ribbon Campaign and all
the cheering and who--
about people coming back of course
needless to say people are thrilled to
have our returning men and women safe
but the issue of course has to be faced
as to what we have done in terms of the
Middle East in the devastation that
continues as we hear each day on the
news the devastation of Iraq as we have
completely destabilized this country my
guest today two very interesting
gentlemen on the subject of the war and
I know you've been very busy and you're
going to be busy this week in Los
Angeles talking to people about the war
Denis Bernstein is here he is a
programmer from KPFA in Berkeley and
he's going to be speaking on Friday
night it's a fundraiser for KPFK also in
studio with me is Dan Sheehan who is
also here for a couple of speaking
engagements is there a reason why you
both felt like a need to come and talk
to people here in Los Angeles well Pam
the we had been we had been scheduled
earlier to come into California that the
Christic Institute is going to be doing
a a weekend seminar at the Esalen
Institute this Friday Saturday and
Sunday and we were scheduled to come in
to do that and I've got I've got to be
in Los Angeles to talk with a number of
people who are who are extremely
concerned about still about the
iran-contra matters there are some
television shows and movies that are
being done about that so I was in
consulting with some of the people and
we said look as long as we're coming in
we should come in to talk with people
about things that Christians have been
doing and one of the things of course
that we've been doing is reviewing the
role of members of the enterprise of
Oliver North's Enterprise in supplying
military equipment to Iraq making
promises to Iran back as early as 1985
that they would overthrow Saddam Hussein
as part of the deal
that was made with the Iranian
government which we now have the CIA
transcripts of the conversations of
Oliver North and Richard Secord and
Albert Hakim with high Iranian
representatives from October 29th of
1985 to that effect we have lots of data
about the covert operations that were
underway against Saddam Hussein working
with Kuwait and the American Central
Intelligence Agency that played a major
role in instigating Saddam Hussein to do
the unfortunate things that he did so
there's there's a whole array of
clandestine covert operations that the
Christic Institute has become quite
expert and digging out in analyzing and
of course given the fact that we know
the players we have a tendency to know
where to look for these people and so we
decided that when we were going to be
coming out to do some of these other
more general discussions that we would
make ourselves available to answer
questions and to talk with people so
I've I've got three different speeches
planned here for tonight and tomorrow
night in the following night in the Los
Angeles area too so we can get to people
in different sections of the of the city
and and communicate with them and answer
some of their questions and I know
Dennis you've been very concerned you
have a document it's an incredible thing
and we want to hear so much more about
this we've only heard some bits and
pieces and it's only just begun to be
picked up by by the media in terms of a
document that the Pacific News Service
you're working with a Pacific News
Service have found out about plans
Danny's talking about plans for the
future of what was going to happen in
Iraq and you've got some
information about the plans that were
made for Kuwait well some listeners to
KPFK might have heard me talking earlier
about this 200 page document prepared in
November December and January by the
352nd Civil Affairs command based in
Saudi Arabia this was a group of
military planners who were preparing the
the recreation of post-war Kuwait this
document as I said was prepared actually
began the preparation began in October
and some there's so many amazing things
about the document but right now I feel
like I'm in a twilight zone because
everything that the document seems to
plan is now coming true in Kuwait and
that's of great concern and it's of
great concern to me that when we first
had the document and we try to tell most
of the mainstream press like the Los
Angeles Times they had a different story
on exactly what all this information
meant clearly by the way we got two
documents we got a 200-page pentagon
document under from confidential sources
and we got a four-page pro-democracy
document from the pro-democracy movement
in exile the Kuwaiti pro-democracy
movement a four-page document in Arabic
and the combination of the two documents
what was happening in terms at in
October in terms of what the Emir of
Kuwait was promising the pro-democracy
movement while the Emir of Kuwait was
conspiring with the United States
government to reinstitute martial law in
Kuwait sort of demonstrates that war was
preordained the the the two documents
combined are very troubling what does
the document say very briefly it's why
am I here why am i concerned why do I
want to get the press to cover it well
it's a situation in which the United
States unilaterally this is not a UN
plan the United States unilaterally
plans to reinstitute martial law and
Kuwait well now while the Army Corps of
Engineers has done nothing for the
people in Kuwait who are starving on the
street they have just finished
rebuilding the palace
they've put in gold tiles in the
bathroom they are in fact making a home
for the Emir of Kuwait this is a
document that says the United States
government is going to run Kuwait for
three months under martial law if not
for a year it says the United States
could be in Kuwait for five years if not
longer forever we don't know it's a
document that talks about how the US
government is going to help Institute
not only martial law not only total
press censorship but how they're going
to among other things changed the
banking system to disenfranchise
two-thirds of the population which were
Palestinian and and other workers in the
country before the war broke out it says
that they're going to change the banking
system because quote notice is sound
familiar to Danny because the
Palestinians controlled the banks so
they're going to take the the money away
from the Palestinians and put it in the
minority's hands so that the
Palestinians don't control the banks in
Kuwait I am concerned that it talks
about roundups ID cards prison camps so
on and so forth I am concerned that this
this information is going to go under
the rug and that what's going to happen
is that as the los angeles time played
it when we gave them the document that
the united states government is the
benevolent country coming in to help the
people of Kuwait and I'm very concerned
about that and I'm here to try and get
the information out on that and the fact
that these roundups as was predicted by
the document and Pacific News Service
these roundups are going to continue the
tortures are going to continue we now
have reports of being people being
summarily summarily shot tortured having
their fingernails pulled out all under
the supervision as per the document of
the United States government so I want
to talk about that with the people in
Los Angeles how much of what we get from
mainstream media is so often of course
one side it is I know you both have had
dramatic experience with the idea of
this one-sided nature how might what we
know now about this war fit within what
has come to be called this George Bush's
new world order something that was
presented to us as if we should be proud
as Americans that he has this new world
order for us all
well there there are I think two very
serious dimensions to this new world
order Pam one is of course the domestic
implications of the new world order once
it's understood and the other one of
course is the international scale in
structure of the the new world order
when George Bush talks about the new
world order he he pretends that what
he's really talking about is a new era
of international cooperation under the
auspices of the United Nations to try to
enforce international law and standards
of international conduct diplomatic
solutions to international disputes and
the ability of the international
community to come together collectively
to enforce the laws against those would
be lawless renegades such as Saddam
Hussein well the fact is none of that
comports with what in fact has actually
transpired here though there has been a
great deal of effort to give it that
kind of image the fact is as we recall
it was George Bush who unilaterally
declared that he was going to send the
US military troops 250,000 into Saudi
Arabia
it wasn't the United Nations the United
Nations on the the two days after the
invasion and then again ten days after
the invasion past specific diplomatic
resolutions making clear that they were
seeking a diplomatic solution to this
Bush is the one to set up an alternative
vision of how this was going to
transpire he is in fact the man who then
sent 250,000 more troops in afterwards
to transform what had been air swell
Desert Shield into Desert Storm into an
offensive capability he declared that he
was going to send those troops into Iraq
and throw them out whether the United
Nations did or did not authorize the use
of violence and military power because
it was necessary to defend the United
States vital interests this was a
unilateral action so the the the
transparent hypocrisy between what
George Bush actually did and the image
he was attempting to project to the
world of this being under this new
different kind of world order is quite
frightening and
so on the international level you have
to see that his idea of this New World
Order is not what he is actually
professing and then you need to ask what
it is and what he quite clearly is
engaged in is an attempt to establish a
major economic coalition among the
United States the new unified European
Economic Community with a new reunified
Germany standing astride Europe and the
Soviet Union if in fact the in primarily
with certain sections of the Soviet
Union where the kind of European
Caucasian Soviet citizenry under
Gorbachev resides and to allow to be
spun off from the rest of the Soviet
Union the Slavic areas the Mongolian
areas the others and to establish an
alliance with the the white Russians and
you're you're looking at there for a
major coalition among what they refer to
as the northern industrial states and
the whole idea is to have them unified
under an international banking system of
loans and extension of credit to the new
Eastern Europe countries into the Soviet
Union and to have them all participate
in a major form of reconstruction
something akin to the Marshall Plan to
in fact establish a major economic
alliance there that will be highly
industrialized and then be able to turn
in unison to the southern hemisphere to
the people of color who are not part of
this caucasian alliance and look upon
those people as possessing the resources
these strategic raw materials that are
the grist of the mill of the industrial
mill of the northern hemisphere and that
type of dynamic is what they perceive as
the new world order and it's actually an
old world water well it's quite a it's
an old world order revised and what's
interesting about the new world order is
that I agree with you Danny that all
these countries and sort of Eastern
Europe and all this will happen but
what's interesting and new and what
George Bush has in mind is he's going to
be there's only one superpower that's
right the new world order is going to be
the u.s. dominating that's right
what goes on look we didn't need any of
the oil in Iraq or Kuwait but the
Germans did and the Japanese didn't so
this is the United States government
establishing a long-held geopolitical
desire to establish a foe at fighting
land base in the Middle East to
essentially set up a tollbooth between
the United States and the new Germany
which they're terrified of and the new
Japan which has a sort of run us under
the table on on technology that's not
military so this new world order is
really an old world order with a new
touch which is the u.s. domination of it
that's right in fact Richard Armitage a
a major player in the off-the-shelf
enterprise the man who in fact handled
the delivery of the tow missiles from
the Pentagon to the enterprise to go to
Iran under the iran-contra weapons deal
is announced publicly in in a major
article in The Washington Times in in
Washington DC that in fact this new
world order is is to be led by and under
the supervision of the only true
international world power the United
States and he goes on then to begin to
raise the issue of what the domestic
implications are he points out that the
separation of powers in the Constitution
of the United States are a concept that
the founding fathers had when the United
States was as his he says anything but a
major world power there was just a minor
a peripheral power on the coast of the
of the Atlantic in the New World and
that at that time it may have been
appropriate to have this separation of
powers to have as he says
sections of the government set up at
cross-purposes with the executive but
the fact of the matter is he says that
now this is very inefficient and that is
his quote was that the executive branch
now has every reason to bemoan the
meddling in international policy of the
Congress with the executive branch and
he calls for a remodeling look at the
constitutional structures in the United
States and to call upon the Congress to
stand down and stop meddling in foreign
policy and to allow the President to
determine what is going to be
structure of this new world order so
that you begin to see the domestic
implications anyone who attempts to
interfere with what is perceived as this
new rosy future of the United States
standing astride militarily of in being
the police arm of this northern
industrial alliance attempting to secure
and protect their privileged access as
they put it to the strategic raw
materials that are needed to fuel this
industry both through the fuels of the
oil industry and of course the raw
materials of the southern hemisphere of
the copper in the the bauxite and the
other types of materials that are needed
this is what the New World Order looks
like and what they're moving to do is to
adopt a strategy as has been pointed out
by Michael Claire from Hampshire College
who is the the the head of the the
inter-college kind of Peace Coalition
there in Massachusetts the the whole
point of his his discussions and
analysis are showing that the United
States military in the Pentagon all
three branches of the military and the
intelligence community in the United
States were petrified at the prospect of
losing their major pulling or in United
States foreign policy development ie
militarist foreign policy with
withdrawal of Gorbachev in mid 1989 in
withdrawing of the Warsaw Pact from the
45 year war called one of course the
peace dividend which would have been it
well industrial research and development
you know this also seems to fit what of
course was Reagan's era of deregulation
when you think about the ways in which
they told us our rosy future was that if
we deregulated things and now as we move
into the Bush era he's of course talking
about international supervision she
regulate the Constitution yet well with
GATT of course we're also looking at the
deregulation of the the international
banking industry insurance industry and
worst of all things of course is the
idea of the communications industry and
we know that when it's possible for
anyone to control it was
Ben Beck Dickian has pointed out with
the 'greater that with a less and less
amount of people participating in the
communications industry we'll have less
and less to get out and I know I was
just recently struck Dennis something
you said about the the way in which you
had it responded to you you know we at
Pacifica had a suit going with a number
of other people about the issue of the
press and the fact that the press had a
right to cover this war in a way that
the White House did not want us to and I
think the remark by the press the Los
Angeles Times reporter about the courts
going back to this idea that we really
don't have to worry so much anymore well
when I was in a debate here on one of
the radio stations one of the commercial
radio stations and I was on with Thomas
rosensteil who is a Washington
correspondent for the Los Angeles Times
and I asked him on the air why the Los
Angeles Times did not join the lawsuit
that was brought by Pacifica and pns and
Mother Jones and the nation and in these
times and The Guardian and this and that
and the other thing and I asked mr.
rosensteil why was not the Los Angeles
time interested in suing the Pentagon to
break open that the censorship the the
cut on censorship and in his response to
me amazing two-part response was first
of all well I don't
I personally mr. Rosas Dennis teal said
I don't personally feel it's the place
of the press you know love this Danny
the place of the press to use the courts
to do their job we shouldn't involve the
courts in our work now I'm thinking as a
journalist I'm thinking about the
Pentagon Papers one I'm thinking about
all the gag orders that have been fought
all the lawsuits that have been brought
against public officials who claim
national security when really they're
just covering their own butts and on and
on and on and then he said and and also
as a person in the press I feel that we
should not report or essentially what he
said is that we have to pay attention to
public opinion ie press as god
press does not determine it's a good
story and put it out the press has to
find out how the public feels about
hearing this information or that
information and that is extraordinary
Danny what you were saying
about domestic and international I find
very interesting because I've got this
200 page document which is an outlaw for
total an outlaw and a blueprint for turn
I think you're right the first turning
it's essentially it's a blueprint for
turning Kuwait into a little mini South
Africa into the middle in the Middle
East it's a it's a program for crushing
and the budding democracy movement that
was growing in Kuwait right before
Saddam invaded Kuwait and it's very I
mean it's sort of legislates what's
going to happen in Kuwait down to how
many calories each Kuwaiti not non
Kuwait Isis each Kuwaiti citizen is
going to get well if you look at that
document Danny and then you take a look
at the Bennett's drug white paper that
came out maybe in 1989 I think it was in
which he talks about create the federal
housing projects becoming little little
South African areas Mansur stands with
ID cards and prison camps right which
they've done and you know and then you
hear reports about people officers
showing up with ski masks on to arrest
people why because they need this kind
of protection because they can't be
revealed to the drug dealers so they'll
be in trouble so they're doing arrests
with ski masks on and on and on and on
and you see that what they have in mind
for the co eighties they have in mind
for the people of this country and we
can see it coming out and this new world
order coming home to the poor in this
country and this anti-crime bill is
really an anti poor well if any single
lesson was learned I think from the
iran-contra developments thus far and
there are a lot more to come
obviously but I think that even with a
limited insight that the institutions
have gotten from the revelations in the
iran-contra crisis is that if you in
fact allow it to develop a certain set
of principles and policies to operate on
the international level to undermine
democracies to carry out political
assassinations to overthrow other
governments to manipulate the news media
in other countries etc if you if you
create that type of a force outside of
your country though
man are going to come back and exercise
those exact same types of talents
domestically when you try to interfere
with their continued effectuation of
those policies on an international level
and that's exactly what happened though
that is the the lesson of the of the
iran-contra crisis is that that when you
had these men in 1976 being publicly
revealed in senator frank churches
Select Committee on Intelligence abuse
hearings and Otis Pike's Commission
hearings on the house side and they were
condemned for the the criminal covert
operations of overthrowing domestically
or democratically elected governments
such as our veins in Guatemala in
Mossadegh in 1953 in in Iran etc and on
and on Chile in 1973 a and A's
government that if you allow them to
come to the conclusion that is correct
to overthrow democratically elected
governments in foreign countries because
they happen to be too liberal or too
progressive or have different economic
points of view then obviously they
become dedicated to that objective and
when the criminal nature of what they
were doing was fully realized by the
American people and they took steps in
1976 to outlaw that type of conduct in
President Carter and Stansfield Turner
assured those men out of the government
from 1976 to 1980 forced them into
retirement
hundred and twenty men what do you mean
those people working for the national
security state the CIA etc who who would
who would follow that kind of apology
those are those who were actually
engaged in prosecuting that type of
program internationally within the
operational director to the Central
Intelligence Agency
those men were turned upon and they were
condemned by the United States Congress
by a whole new generation of voters in
the country and turned out and were
forced into retirement and what they did
is they then turned those talents
against the domestic American political
scene they targeted six major United
States senators senator frank church who
had chaired the select committee
hearings senator dick clark of iowa who
had sponsored the clark amendment which
outlawed criminal covert operations in
angola against senator McGovern who had
had the audacity to
for president in opposition to these men
there were six of these men who were
targeted and millions and millions of
dollars was funneled in from the
enterprise that was in banks outside of
the country Australia and New Guinea and
others through South Africa into the
United States showing up mysteriously in
these packs and for example the Senator
Frank church was attacked in Idaho
not because on the face of it because he
opposed the criminal covert operations
of the intelligence community but
instead millions of dollars went into
PACs attacking him for his position on
gun control attack him for his position
on the Equal Rights Amendment attacking
for his position on publicly available
birth control in and that's the how he
was attacked and he was ousted from
government and those have been clearly
shown the the the Attorney General in
Iowa and Dick Clark State was impaneling
a federal grand jury to look into that
type of conduct by the intelligence
community now that's the kind of thing
that every single political scientist
has warned about that if you set up a
secret political police and you allow
them to function such as the KGB did or
the secret police the bureau Special
Services in South Africa the SAVAK the
Dina any of these groups you allow them
to conduct their activities outside of
the country and the minute that they
disagree with what the American people
or the majority of people in their
country wants to do they will turn their
talents upon the domestic side that is
the other the shadow side of the New
World Order and it's interesting to me
Danny that ironically the one of the
people who led the charge against those
people as an aide to Senator Jeremiah
Denton was joe liske is right and he
shows up after he leads that charge
excuse me he shows up as an aid to the
iran-contra committee and the first we
know is Tom Pogo who was a former CIA
station chief in in Vietnam and I you
know it's so I mean I'm just not
surprised anymore although it's amazing
that they can keep doing it and if we
take a look at these documents and
what's going on now in Kuwait the second
part
or the second document about the
pro-democracy movement here you have the
administration setting up working with
the Emir who is busy setting up death
squads with hit lists in Kuwait and so
Ted Koppel is for us because it's so
public now to put on the air a very
prestigious businessman from Kuwait who
comes on and says this he says that the
Emir is back there creating death squads
there are now hit lists and here says
Ted Koppel is somebody who's paralyzed
from the waist down who says he's been
shot by one of the Emir's death squads
this is the same old thing with you know
we do it we do it abroad and then we do
it and we do it at home death squads
their repression here the worse it gets
there the worse it gets here so the what
really needs to be done however I'd like
to that that having been set forth as
the as the backdrop I would like to to
point out to people that while they are
feeling extraordinarily depressed in the
face of this kind of litany of apparent
successes you know there's there's a lot
of bad news and there's a lot of good
news about what's going on here because
that the American people I think in the
midst of their celebrations tag now
desert rainbow are are in fact going to
I want to celebrate something good they
say oh gee it's time for us to have
something good here we want to feel that
we've been involved in a just war we'd
like to feel that we've done something
good with our military and so that
there's almost a manic effort on the
part of the American public to wrap
themselves in a yellow ribbon into to
become exultant about this thing but
just like in any trial that I do as a
trial lawyer the best part of the entire
trial is when the other side puts on
their very best witness and after they
get done testifying on their direct the
jury then almost believes them almost
believes that what they're saying is
true and when they're shown to be
complete liars and that they have
undertaken to actively and consciously
deceive the jury the case is won and
that's what we see happening right now
because the fact of the matter is the
image that George Bush has projected
what this war was all about of how it
started of what it was all fought for
and all that is one huge lie you know
that that that the the covert operations
that were behind setting this war up the
plans that were or hatched inside the
Pentagon where Kuwait and Saddam Hussein
is directly named in internal documents
beginning in January of 1990 all the way
up to May of 1990 as a likely target for
new covert operations on the part of the
American Central Intelligence Agency to
try to establish a new role for the
intelligence community and for the
United States military forces after the
the death of the Cold War that what they
need to do is to retool and to find a
new target that they can use to justify
to the American public that needs this
massive military operation against them
that when they see that being done when
they when they find out about the
details of what went on like in any
trial they are going to be mortified and
to the exact degree to which they have
been ecstatic they will fall and then
they will be that much more furious
because they have been betrayed by this
man and it's important for people to
know that that in 1972 in the November
election of Richard Nixon was the hugest
political landslide in the entire
history of American politics and yet
within two years the man was out and he
was disgraced and he was impeached
because of something he had done prior
to the election all right Danny let me
jump in here because I really want to
ask you questions about hope and about
what you're what you're saying did you
need to do an I just want to let the
audience know that we were speaking
today with Dennis Bernstein who is from
KPFA and also a writer for Pacific News
Service he
in town to help help KPFK raise some
money on Friday night more about that
later but also in studio is Dan Sheehan
and Dan Sheehan is the chief counsel for
the Christic Institute you've heard an
awful lot about the Christie case here
on KPFK in terms of the LaPenta bombing
case you've heard about some of the
other cases that the Christic Institute
has been involved with and why don't you
go on I want to make sure we get back to
this issue of course what is going what
you know some of us thought that the end
of the Cold War was going to see the
beginning of the drug war and that would
be the way in which domestic order and
we'd be able to beef up I think probably
we're seeing that's on harder than now
we're training people in Bolivia where
we're really getting involved in Peru
and we're also talking at the UN about
implicating Castro and the Cubans and
drug operations and human rights
violations as a way of perhaps Castro
maybe George Bush is going to need
another war right before the election
because the domestic situation is so
terrible
maybe it's Cuba I want to but I think to
talk about hope at this point in time
Danny is very important and let me sort
of be the devil's advocate here for a
moment and let me work with your
courtroom image that the that the
prosecution presents their case and
people almost believe it and then the
people have a chance to speak or the
that the defendant has a chance to
present the case and the truth comes out
well and I like that Richard Nixon image
because it's an example of things being
able to be turned around but I covered
the Tucson sanctuary trial for six
months and I listened to the prosecution
for most of those months and I was
waiting for the other side to have their
chance to present and unfortunately
every time they tried to present the
material the judge sent the jury out of
the room and said that material is
unacceptable in that instance for the
courtroom here we have the media now
playing judge this is a new media this
isn't the Richard Nixon media this is
the no more Vietnam media this is the
new media saying sorry that is out of
order jury leaves the room we being the
Jordy the jury
the American audience so how is it Danny
that you're hopeful hopeful in the face
of this fist clamped down on the flow of
information because that what it's what
it's doing is it is revealing to the
American public what the major
mainstream media really is see that as
long as they thought that they were
really objective and subtle in in kind
of inquiring into what was going on in
the government etc then they said well
if the media isn't telling us anything
bad about the government there must be
nothing bad there because they thought
that they were kind of even-handed there
has been an absolute abject display of
cheerleading you know lack of
objectivity all of that kind of stuff
going on by the media even regular
people can tell that and what's
happening now is because though that
media never asked these questions
never looked into the covert operations
that we're instigating this war never
dealt with any of that stuff when it
starts coming out now which it will
because there are stations like this and
there are alternative media and there
are other channels through which we can
get this stuff out now and that we
aren't restricted to the major three
television networks into the New York
Times in the Washington Post the fact is
now that when the American people
discover that they've been lied to by
the government and that nobody asks the
tough questions inside the major media
they're gonna say wait a second let's
give larger contributions to the public
radio stations who were trying to ask
some of these questions let's give some
major more contributions to these
stations to these these alternative news
media people let's get a look at this
kind of thing let's get some of this
information up on the table here let's
instead of relying upon the Justice
Department and the special prosecutor
let's give some more contributions this
Christic Institute they were the ones
telling us and the thing is that you
have to stand with the rain in your face
in the bad weather you have to be the
one that people knows was saying that
and you have to be held up to the public
ridicule well it is true you know habla
kraid EO we here at KPFK and all the
other stations and other public stations
around the country have word deluge
during our last fund rise there are very
successful people are coming forward
wanting to be involved again that's
right and I I am rather heartened at the
fact that two minutes of video could
have such an incredible impact when the
people see the truth as they did in the
case of Rodney King and this pounding
that this man in Los Angeles received we
got
national attention we have the chief of
police who has said some of the most
repulsive things for the last and for
the the 12 years that he's been in power
in this city he has been able to get
away get away and again and again we've
heard about about violations like the
ones that happened here but here we've
got two minutes of video the American
people see the public and the American
people respond and that's right and I'm
hoping I know I don't think we've
convinced Dennis yet because we're not
over yet what I'm saying is that the the
the failure of the the American major
news media to communicate this
information to them is going to be
perceived by the American people as an
act of betrayal because they have been
taught ever since they've been in the
first grade that the media is kind of
the Fourth Estate they're the ones that
are supposed to ask these questions for
them that they've actually been lulled
into complete passivity that you just
sit back and any questions that need to
get asked will be asked by Woodward and
Bernstein or they'll be asked by you
know Daniel Schorr or something you know
they say say that to him
well the fact is that those questions
weren't asked and they weren't dealt
with and now for example the the
Christic Institute has just Monday sent
out a paper we sent it out a week and
earlier to some of the media people to
detail the kind of criminal covert
operations that were involved for
example that Oliver North and Richard
Secord and Albert Hakeem's Enterprise
they have entries right in Oliver
North's notebooks about about said about
Sarki saguenay Leon working with Richard
Secord and Albert Hakim in supplying to
Iraq fifty billion dollars of military
equipment during the 1980s fifty billion
dollars any when it was completely
criminal it was just as illegal to sell
them that military equipment is it was
for the enterprise to sell the tow
missiles to Iraq and you're dealing with
a criminal conspiracy and the same one
that they've already been told about in
the iran-contra scandal it's the exact
same man and they're seeing they're
seeing that that and that's going to
happen we sent the information out we
sent it to him and when I arrived in San
Diego on Saturday night and got ready to
do a talk there Monday Sunday in the
opinion section of the San Diego Union
not exactly a liberal paper is a he
huge opinion section saying now is the
time to ask the questions was this a
right war was this war necessary was
this war choreographed I went on a radio
show yesterday in San Diego with a woman
who used to work for Pat Robertson we're
talking again not a liberal person down
there and by the end of that show she
was livid over what had happened because
she'd been so taken in because she'd
been so taken in and that's the kind of
thing you're gonna start to see you're
gonna see the people ask the questions
you're gonna see the people know that
they've been hoodwinked by this thing
and because they were so seriously
misled because they were so seriously
indulged in this kind of euphoria
they're going to feel betrayed now that
now that's what's getting ready to
happen now the question is what is the
mechanism by means of which this is
going to be done and I think that the
alternative media the radio and the in
the print media the alternatives at
cable some cable television videotapes
to send the video tapes around the
Christic Institute and others have video
tapes detailing this stuff they're going
to be made available to people now and
very important I think a second
extraordinarily important lesson has
come if people don't realize now how
absolutely in totally bankrupt the
Democratic Party is they're never going
to know the lesson to see the Democratic
Party have done what it did and to fawn
around and not challenge these people
and not really press their position on
this thing into then kowtow to this
thing say well gee you know it looks
like the president's going to do this
anyhow he told us he's gonna do it
without us well we got we can't impeach
him just because he's defying the
Constitution gee he's kind of a popular
guy and then to fawn around and let this
war go on the way that it did and not do
anything to really stop this thing and
not have the courage to ask any of these
questions themselves they won't in the
midst of all of this flood of yellow
ribbons well none of them will get up
and start asking these questions will
not demand to know the answers when when
the White House won't allow April
Gillespie to go before the Fed of the
Foreign Affairs but they won't compel
her they won't issue any subpoenas for
her they won't make John Kelly come in
there and answer the questions of why he
was sending these kind of signals to
Saddam Hussein they won't dare do this
and indeed when the 68 votes came down
in the Congress 50 of those votes they
actually said we
not voting for this war but we're gonna
vote to support our president that's
right and this idea that there would be
that many Democrats who would be wanting
to support this right George in both but
both of those institutions and somebody
close on this point then we can dialogue
is that the only until such time as the
American people reject the ABC evening
news and CBS and NBC as their sources of
truth and only until such time as they
reject the Democratic Party as their
Avenue to solutions will there be any
realistic chance of getting to some
really significant changes going on here
and that's why the time has come very
close now for the establishment of a new
independent political party that is what
is going on now there are major meetings
going on now about there's an entire
generation here that born between 1945
at the end of that war and before the
president was assassinated in 1963
President Kennedy that one baby boom
generated 75 million American citizens
and that we constitute forty four point
seven percent of the entire potential
electric in every single year now a sign
of Hope is every single entering class
now coming in in the freshman year of
college coming out of high school at 18
years of age now is asking to talk to
the 60s people let's talk to the 60s
people let's organize against apartheid
in South Africa you know let's get this
thing go I see we are gaining a new
entering class every single year and the
world war two generation is losing
people to old age every single year and
they're going down and down and down and
what you see is a desperate effort on
their part to cling to old images to old
views of the world old world or the old
world orders and that this what we're
seeing here in a sense is is a is a sign
of last-gasp now I would like to just in
this in this context bring to to the
image the season that we're in of the of
the spring equinox the the recycling of
life that coming back to life the the
the Easter celebration and the Passover
because because of people wander in the
desert for a number of years does not
mean that they are lost or that they're
that they're their day is gone that the
fact is that that is a toughening
experience
that is in the same way that when when
you believe that your hopes have been
crucified when the entire movement has
been crucified upon a cross of yellow
ribbon now only then will people feel
adequately despondent to say it is time
for me to get off my butt it is time for
me to to get back into what I was doing
in the 60s it's time for me to get back
into telling my kids about what's really
got to get done now it's time to get
over this lethargy that the kind of
stunning example that we have seen of
just international imperialist ventures
that have just gone down now does not
escape an entire generation we know what
that is we've seen that before and it
took and to relive a little history it
took a lot more than we would like to
remember that it took to get us into
action back in the 1960s you know that
the fact is the 60s took place not from
60 to 70 were from 65 to 75
we were out that those of us who were
the cutting edge the beginning of the
world war two post baby boom generation
two or three years we were in college
kind of lugging around and kind of not
knowing what was going on it took it
took a few years to grasp how awful
things were and that's now done that our
entire generation I think now knows
what's happened here and no matter where
you go people say well you know it
doesn't mean that all the entire 44.7%
are going to vote your way because
they've gotten jobs 2.3 kids they're all
working here the fact is we are not the
Yuppie generation you know we aren't
yuppies that we didn't convert to
yuppies we got into having kids and
doing the other stuff that people do
normally but the fact is that the
yuppies are beneath us they're younger
than us they're the 30 year olds down to
the 20 year olds it's the people below
20 years old now and the people that are
30 to 45 that there's where your power
is right in that block and that's the
people that have to be organized and we
have the 501c3 public interest groups
who can articulate positive visions not
just criticizing the Republicans and
Democrats and say oh this is what's
wrong with the Republican Clean Air Act
and this is what's wrong with the
Democratic Clean Air Act we know what a
Clean Air Act should look like we know
what the details are we know how much
it's gonna cost we know where the tax
money should come from in the same way
of the Equal Rights Amendment in the in
the feminist issues we know what those
are we don't have to just sit and carp
at these World War two generation people
the time has passed
the time has passed for this generation
to be going to these people like we go
to our father on Friday night and ask
them for the car keys
you know we have grown up now and that
we are in charge we're grown-up or
adults it's time for us to realize that
we've now grown up I always take control
I'm glad you didn't say a third party as
opposed to independence and independence
there's no there's only one party now
with two names yes and it's important
independent yes there really is only one
party and it doesn't it's really a revel
relevant to ultimately Democrat
Republicans I do work together on issues
that we saw this happen we saw the this
the most liberal of Democrats some of
the most liberal of Democrats like
Barbara Boxer from where I come from do
an amazing flip-flop in in a very short
period of time
you're wrong Pam I am convinced I am
hopeful and I think it's important for
us to talk about your image and to if I
could just make your point hammer at
home your point about that footage that
two minutes of footage that has now
taken on a crummy little video camera
that that most people or many people
have that that two minutes of footage
shown nationally has now created a
situation in which the generally the
American people feel that the police in
this country brutalize people that is
what two minutes of footage can do
primetime so just to carry that image a
little bit further imagine just imagine
if we say we just got three minutes of
truth about the war every night just
three minutes of truth three minutes of
equivalent I mean the footage that we
would have seen if it was real about the
war would have made that footage that we
saw about police brutality light and
mild
can you imagine every night American
population watched Dan Rather broadcast
footage in which say five thousand
people are incinerated on the spot brown
bodies little babies we know because
we've got reports out of Jordan where
they saw the videotape of the shelter
where it was utterly it was utter chaos
in the streets when people saw the
little babies coming out
Christie crisp and burnt from u.s.
bombing mission so there really am
hopeful that if the information gets out
to the American people they will be
changed and I think Danny that's why the
network's took such risks and shutting
down Jon Alpert and Mary and Alejo who
we'll be talking about Friday night at
the benefit for KPFK
at the Robert Frost auditorium I guess
it is we're going to be talking about
what the network's how nervous the
network's were I mean we have filmmakers
who won seven Emmy Awards DuPont Awards
seven Emmys
they won NBC 7 Emmys they did over a
hundred broadcasts for NBC NBC knew who
these people were they had been in
Vietnam in Cambodia in the Soviet Union
they had been in El Salvador in
Guatemala for the network for NBC
winning them Emmy Awards they came back
broke Hall and whatever you think about
in Brokaw and Steve Friedman the
executive producer of NBC News said yes
this is a scoop we want it what did they
have they had footage on the ground in
Iraq the first week in February at the
height of the air war that demonstrated
on by the way they had uncensored
footage the only uncensored footage to
come out they had it it demonstrated a
great conflict between what was really
going on and what the US military was
saying it was accepted and then it was
killed from the top by the president of
NBC News who said I haven't seen it I'm
sure it's very good but I just don't
want to be involved with freelances
anymore that's what this man and a CBS
today no no and he said I don't also
want to be associated with the Ramsey
Clarkson of the world former attorney
general highest law enforcement and a
person in the land
son of a Supreme Court justice not your
typical radical they went to CBS because
they weren't gonna give up and Tom Beck
tag of CBS said sure we like this stuff
this is a scoop we're gonna go for it
and Beth tech said yep you're gonna be
on tomorrow night with Dan Rather well
they went home started to prepare their
footage without Ramsey Clark they wanted
the footage without Ramsey Clark who was
on the trip and they got a call in the
middle of the night Tom Beth tag lost
his job
and their footage was canceled by the
way when they came home Japanese
television bought it in a minute and put
it right on so if that footage was shown
perhaps we would have different but that
see but that will be shown you see
because the the what's going to happen
now what people need to understand is
that they need to do it that people need
to do this that we can no longer be
passive about this we can't sit around
wringing our hands in in you know be
moaning the premature death of the the
movement the fact is that in the same
way that the Christic Institute was
declared dead when people thought that
they had thrown out judge King had
thrown out the LaPenta case just last
week we got through arguing in front of
the Court of Appeals in this case is
going to be going back into discovery
and by May we'll have a decision in our
favor we'll be back in subpoenaing these
people those people are going to be
brought to justice it's just the same
way that it took ten years to get the
Karen Silkwood case won all the way to
the Supreme Court this is gonna take
some time but the thing about the
sixties generation is that we do not
quit we do not quit they're not going to
roll over we're not gonna roll over and
stop this thing is going to come to pass
now the that we are going to have to
take charge ourselves we're going to
have to organize a new independent
political party we have to we have to
support our independent radio stations
we're going to have to do more active
and creative videotaping and set up
distribution networks to distribute that
stuff around the world
and around the country too we are going
to have our own independent sources of
communication and it will work it will
work quite well for I left San Francisco
that videotape was shown at a church
when I walked into the church I was to
introduce this tape and I looked at the
choice and I said this is ridiculous why
did they get such a huge Church is we're
gonna I'm gonna be here with 30 people
well 1,500 people showed up to look at
that videotape and they had to turn away
200 people and I know that the 1500
people who saw that videotape were angry
and were out the next morning calling
the networks and calling NBC and
complaining and saying why haven't you
done it and you're right Denny that's
what it's about it's not going to be
crushed if people and this audience want
to see that videotape they're probably
going to have a chance Friday night if
they want to hear about censored
material they should pay attention to
Daniel Sheehan the Christic Institute
the alternative media and they the
people not just us Danny Sheehan
Denis Bernstein Pemberton but the people
everybody has to become a very active
pro-peace expert because that's how we
got here you know we didn't start out
this way you know that that you need to
take that first step you need to step
out and say oh I'm not just going to
rely upon the Christic Institute to do
my job for me I'm gonna ask them for the
information I'm going to get the data
and then I'm going to invite my friends
to my house and I'm gonna show them the
videotape I'm gonna talk with them about
that and people have to become active
the key concept of the Constitution
which is the Bill of Rights 200 years
old this year the celebration of the
200th anniversary of the final process
of that Constitution is right this year
in the most primary concept was that the
people ourselves have to ever be
vigilant that we have to be active we
have to do our work for ourselves that's
the reason you go to school that's the
reason you get educated that's the
reason you read books is you've got to
get busy the bottom line is you have to
retake this country for the American
people to take it out of the hands of
the George Bush's and these corporate
moguls you've got to take it back and
you do it through democratic processes
through all kinds of education and
street organizing and to get busy
get back in the let me tell you it's not
people say are the 60s going to come
back no the 90s are coming we're gonna
make them available to people if you
want the stories we wrote about the
documents if you want the documents so
that you can shake it in the face of one
news director or another we can we'll
provide it for you we can make copies we
have access to computers copy machines
the whole bit just like the other side
uses technology we can use it for
peaceful means and the quote something
that john stockwell wrote about in his
new book the praetorian guard remember
that those who do not do politics will
be done thank you so much for being my
guest today again Dennis Bernstein from
Pacific news service and KPFA in
Berkeley and also Daniel Sheehan of the
Christic Institute thanks thank you